
# Web page

This repo contains the source code of my [webpage](https://adrianfd22.github.io/index.html). It is generated by compiling markdown files to html using [pandoc](https://pandoc.org/). The compilation is managed by the bash script ```gen_page.sh```. The motivation is having a static site generator with low complexity usage but with enough flexibility in nesting pages (arbitrary level of depth). See also [TSPW](https://github.com/eakbas/TSPW/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file) for a simpler implementation more useful for small pages.

## Description

Each page has the same structure: a navbar in the top followed by a markdown compiled to html part using pandoc. The navbar links to different sections of the web and a common file ```style.css```, gives the default appearance to all the htmls.

The contents of the web page previous to compilation are stored in the directory ```content``` in the form of plain directories and markdown files. That directory contains an ```index.md``` file which will be used to generate the main page and a directory ```content/sections```, which contains the diferent elements to appear in the top navbar. The rest of the directory structure in each section induces the structure of the page.

The ```gen_page.sh``` script compiles recursively each section and adds them to the bottom level of the page. Each markdown file is compiled to html prepending it with the navbar. For the directories that do not contain an ```index.md``` file, the script creates one containing a listing of the child files (see [example](https://adrianfd22.github.io/sections/Blog/index.html)) and compiles it.

The directory ```resources``` contains the ```style.css``` file and the pandoc template to be used.

## Usage

Simply write to a markdown file in ```content``` and run the script ```gen_page.sh``` in the bottom level of the page. The script has some parameters you can define for customizing the page, such the order the files in a directory will be listed or the order of the sections to be appeared in the navbar.

## Comments
Some observations:
- Since the script compiles every markdown file in ```content/sections```, if you want to store not compiled plain markdown files in you page (for downloading or whatever), you have to work around. One solution is to name them as hidden files with prefix "." for ```ls``` to ignore them. Other approach is storing them outside ```content/sections```.
- You can include html files ```content```, pandoc will simply compile them as markdown files, with minor effect (I guess). Watch out having both and ```index.html``` and ```index.md``` in the same directory since this will cause ```index.html``` to be ignored.
- For ordering files, you can begin the file name with a number and "_". This will help ls listing them in order. The script is programmed for ignoring the prefix when creating the link in the html.
